content/blog/post-2.md, before:

---
title: "Weekly Update 2"
date: 2021-02-07
image : "images/481_scotch_yokes.png"
# author
author : ["Biospreadr Team"]
# categories
categories: ["Weekly updates"]
tags: ["update"]
# meta description
description: "Weekly update 2"
# save as draft
draft: false
---

Lorem ipsum, or lipsum as it is sometimes known, is dummy text used in laying out print, graphic or web designs. The passage is attributed to an unknown typesetter in the 15th century who is thought to have scrambled parts of Cicero's De Finibus Bonorum et Malorum for use in a type specimen book.Lorem ipsum, or lipsum as it is sometimes known, is dummy text used in laying out print, graphic or web designs. The passage is attributed to an unknown typesetter in the 15th century who is thought to have scrambled parts of Cicero's De Finibus Bonorum et Malorum for use in a type specimen book.Lorem ipsum, or lipsum as it is sometimes known, is dummy text used in laying out print, graphic or web designs. The passage is attributed to an unknown typesetter in the 15th century who is thought to have scrambled parts of Cicero's De Finibus Bonorum et Malorum for use in a type specimen book.Lorem ipsum, or lipsum as it is sometimes known, is dummy text used in laying out print, graphic or web designs. The passage is attributed to an unknown typesetter in the 15th century who is thought to have scrambled parts of Cicero's De Finibus Bonorum et Malorum for use in a type specimen book.

Lorem ipsum, or lipsum as it is sometimes known, is dummy text used in laying out print, graphic or web designs. The passage is attributed to an unknown typesetter in the 15th century who is thought to have scrambled parts of Cicero's De Finibus Bonorum et Malorum for use in a type specimen book.Lorem ipsum, or lipsum as it is sometimes known, is dummy text used in laying out print, graphic or web designs. The passage is attributed to an unknown typesetter in the 15th century who is thought to have scrambled parts of Cicero's De Finibus Bonorum et Malorum for use in a type specimen book.Lorem ipsum, or lipsum as it is sometimes known, is dummy text used in laying out print, graphic or web designs. The passage is attributed to an unknown typesetter in the 15th century who is thought to have scrambled parts of Cicero's De Finibus Bonorum et Malorum for use in a type specimen book.

Commit message:

Add post 2, initial draft, more to be added

content/blog/post-2.md, after:

---
title: "Weekly Update 2"
date: 2021-02-07
image : "images/481_scotch_yokes.png"
# author
author : ["Biospreadr Team"]
# categories
categories: ["Weekly updates"]
tags: ["update"]
# meta description
description: "More progress on the Carrier Tube Mechanism"
# save as draft
draft: false
---

# Week 4

## Carrier Tube: Mechanical Updates
After getting the initial prints completed last week, this week was spent refining the mechanics of the carrier tube system and testing everything prior to handoff for electrical/software integration. Initial test fits revealed that the solenoid cavity in the 3D printed part was too small to fit the solenoid. There was a similar problem last week with the inner carrier tube being too small which was solved by sanding down the part. Unfortunately, sanding down the solenoid was not an option.
 
Consequently, the main body of the carrier tube was re-printed at 103% scale, which ensured that there was enough clearance for all components without the need for post-print finishing. Once the reprint was complete, the whole mechanical system was put together and tested by hand. The completed system is shown below:
 
![Carrier Tube Mockup](/images/wk2-carrier-tube-mockup.jpg)
 
The photo shows the main body with the solenoid and piston inside, as well as the inlet and outlet bead feeding tubes installed. Manual operation showed that the system consistently dispenses the correct number of beads without jams or other malfunctions. This represents the achievement of a key design goal for the Biospreadr apparatus.
Next steps for the carrier tube include mechanizing the system by powering the solenoid and adding software control.

## Carrier Tube: Testing the power system

Coming soon ...
